# etcd CNCF tech docs analysis

Prepared by: Dave Welsch ([@dwelsch-esi][dwelsch-esi])<br>
Date: <draft-date>

## Introduction

This document assesses the quality and completeness of the [etcd][etcd-io] project's documentation and website. 

This document:

- Measures existing documentation quality against the CNCF’s standards
- Provides examples of great documentation as a reference
- Recommends a program of key improvements with the largest return on investment
- Provides guidance to making the recommended improvements actionable TBD


## How this document works

The assessment is divided into three sections:

- **Project documentation:** for end users of the project, aimed at people who intend to use it
- **Contributor documentation:** for new and existing contributors to the project
- **Website:** for branding, website structure, and maintainability

Each section begins with a rating based on a rubric with appropriate [criteria](criteria.md) for the section. The rubric uses the following scale:

| Rating | Meaning |
| --- | --- |
| 1 | Is not present |
| 2 | Needs improvement to meet project maturity standards |
| 3 | Meets project maturity standards |
| 4 | Meets or exceeds project maturity standards |
| 5 | Consistently exceeds project maturity standards |

The assessment also includes a summary of recommendations at the end.

## Project documentation

| Criterion                  |  Rating  |
| ---                        |    ---   |
| Information architecture   |     2 - needs work    |
| New user content           |     3 - meets standards    |
| Content maintainability    |     3 - meets standards     |
| Content creation processes |     2 - needs work     |
| Inclusive language         |          |


### Comments

The following sections contain brief assessments of each element of the Project Documentation rubric.

#### Information architecture

**High-level conceptual** and design content is hidden in a section called *Learning* 2/3 of the way down the TOC. 

The section called *Learning*, right before *Developer guide* 2/3 down the ToC, is a catch-all for a lot of different types of information:

- An architectural overview (actually a fairly detailed explanation of how etcd's client and resiliency architectures work).
- Adoption decision information, in *etcd versus other key-value stores*. 
- Also a glossary.

There is a single paragraph on the [website][etcd-io] landing page with a "Learn more" link that goes to the current documetation table of contents.

As far as I can tell, the documentation is **feature complete**. It lacks an adequate introduction and overview.

There are **instructions** for features. These instructions include:

- A "quick start" guide
- Installation instructions
- Tutorials
- Instructions on how to tune the server cluster
- Using the CLI

... and other tasks and procedures.

There might be **undocumented tasks** associated with key features; a more thorough analysis of key use cases is required to make that determination.

The **"happy path"** is not a simple procedure, but I believe that there is sufficient documentation of the most common use cases (set and get key-value pairs via an API from an application) to argue that it is documented.

Task and tutorial content is **clearly named according to user goals**. 

**Escalation paths** are clearly described in [Reporting bugs](https://etcd.io/docs/v3.5/reporting_bugs/) and [Triage](https://etcd.io/docs/v3.5/triage/).

The product provides a [**reference for the API**](https://etcd.io/docs/v3.5/learning/api/). The documentation also references many language-specific libraries used to integrate with etcd.

Documentation content is **up to date and is versioned**. The current documentation set is for the stable 3.5 release of etcd. The site also contains a draft version of documentation for the 3.6 release.

Examples:

* https://prometheus.io/docs/introduction/overview/
* https://kubernetes.io/docs/home/


#### New user content

* Is “getting started” clearly labeled? (“Getting started”, “Installation”, “First steps”, etc.)
* Is installation documented step-by-step?
* If needed, are multiple OSes documented?
* Do users know where to go after reading the getting started guide?
* Is your new user content clearly signposted on your site’s homepage or at the top of your information architecture?
* Is there easily copy-pastable sample code or other example content?


Examples:

* https://falco.org/docs/getting-started/
* https://prometheus.io/docs/introduction/first_steps/


#### Content maintainability & site mechanics

* Is your documentation searchable?
* Are you planning for localization/internationalization with regards to site directory structure? Is a localization framework present?
* Do you have a clearly documented method for versioning your content?

Examples:

* https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/

#### Content creation processes

* Is there a clearly documented (ongoing) contribution process for documentation?
* Does your code release process account for documentation creation & updates?
* Who reviews and approves documentation pull requests?
* Does the website have a clear owner/maintainer?


Examples:

* https://github.com/nats-io/nats-site/blob/master/MAINTAINERS.md (clearly documented maintainers)
* https://thanos.io/tip/contributing/how-to-contribute-to-docs.md/

#### Inclusive language

[installation check][install-check]: contains "sanity check", a term designated "Strongly Consider Replacing" by the [Inclusive Naming Initiative][inclusive-naming].

* Are there any customer-facing utilities, endpoints, class names, or feature names that use non-recommended words as documented by the [Inclusive Naming Initiative][inclusive-naming] website?
* Does the project use language like "simple", "easy", etc.?


### Recommendations

Lose the animated GIFs of CLI interactions. Especially the multi-window ones. They illustrate nothing and make the reader seasick.



## Contributor documentation

| Criterion                                 | Rating   |
| ---                                       | --- | 
| Communication methods documented          |     | 
| Beginner friendly issue backlog           |     |
| “New contributor” getting started content |     | 
| Project governance documentation          |     | 

Scale:
| Rating | Meaning |
| --- | --- |
| 1 | Is not present |
| 2 | Is incomplete |
| 3 | Is complete but misplaced, distributed, or obscured |
| 4 | Is complete and meets project maturity standards |
| 5 | Exceeds project maturity standards |

### Comments

Instructions for building the website state that the local build starts the server on `localhost:8888`. It's actually `localhost:1313` which then starts `8888` Not sure why this is necessary yet. TBD.

#### Communication methods documented

* Is there a Slack/Discord/Discourse/etc. community and is it prominently linked from your website?
* Is there a direct link to your GitHub organization/repository?
* Are weekly/monthly project meetings documented? Is it clear how someone can join those meetings?
* Are mailing lists documented?

Examples:
https://kubernetes.io/community/

#### Beginner friendly issue backlog

* Are docs issues well-triaged?
* Is there a clearly marked way for new contributors to make code or documentation contributions (i.e. a “good first issue” label)?
* Are issues well-documented (i.e., more than just a title)?
* Are issues maintained for staleness?

Examples:

* https://github.com/opentracing/opentracing.io/issues (all of open tracing’s backlogs are well maintained!)


#### New contributor getting started content

* Do you have a community repository or section on your website?
* Is there a document specifically for new contributors/your first contribution?
* Do new users know where to get help?

Examples:

* https://github.com/helm/community
* https://github.com/backstage/community


#### Project governance documentation

* Is project governance clearly documented?

Examples:

* https://github.com/kubernetes/steering

### Recommendations



## Website

| Criterion                                   | Rating | 
| ---                                         | --- | 
| Single-source for all files                 |    |
| Meets min website req. (for maturity level) |    |
| Branding and design                         |    |
| Case studies/social proof                   |    |
| SEO, Analytics, and site-local search       |    |
| Maintenance planning                        |    |
| A11y plan & implementation                  |    |
| Mobile-first plan & impl.                   |    |
| HTTPS access & HTTP redirect                |    |
| Google Analytics 4 for production only      |    |
| Indexing allowed for production server only |    |
| Intra-site / local search                   |    |
| Account custodians are documented           |    |

Scale:
| Rating | Meaning |
| --- | --- |
| 1 | Is not present |
| 2 | Is incomplete |
| 3 | Is complete but misplaced, distributed, or obscured |
| 4 | Is complete and meets project maturity standards |
| 5 | Exceeds project maturity standards |

### Comments

#### Single-source requirement

* Source for the website should reside in a _single_ repository.
* Source for the website should be separate from the project source code.
* Ideally, all website files should be in the **website repo** itself. Alternatively, files should be brought into the website repo via [git submodules][].
* If a project chooses to keep source files in multiple repos, they need a clearly documented strategy for managing mirrored files and new contributions.

#### Minimal website requirements

Except for archived projects, requirements are cumulative through project maturity levels so, for example, incubating projects must satisfy the requirements for sandbox projects.

Listed and acknowledged below are the (cumulative) _minimal_ website requirements for projects based on their [maturity level][website-min-reqs]: sandbox, incubating, graduated and archived.

| Maturity | Requirement | Met? |
| ---      | ---         | --- |
| Sandbox  | Majority of [Website guidelines][website-guidelines] satisfied |  |
| Sandbox | [Docs assessment][assess-howto] [submitting a request][cncf-servicedesk] completed. |  |
| Sandbox | **Project documentation** exists – somewhere. It is acceptable at this maturity level to link out to documentation that hasn't yet been integrated into the website. (May still be in the project GitHub repo, for example.) |  |
| Incubating | All [Website guidelines][website-guidelines] satisfied |  |
| Incubating | Request docs (re-)assessment through CNCF [service desk][cncf-servicedesk] |  |
| Incubating | **Project doc**: stakeholders (roles) identified and doc needs documented |  |
| Incubating | **Project doc**: Hosted directly |  |
| Incubating | **Project doc**: Comprehensive, addressing most stakeholder needs |  |
| Graduated | [Docs assessment][assess-howto]: all assessment follow-through actions are complete |  |
| Graduated | **Project doc** fully addresses needs of key stakeholders |  |
| Archived | The website repo is in an [archived state][archiving-repo] | n/a |
| Archived | Archived status of the project is obvious to site visitors | n/a |
| Archived | Link to successor project website and/or migration documentation (if it exists) | n/a |

#### Usability, accessibility and devices

**Mobile:**
* Is the website usable from mobile?
* Are doc pages readable?
* Are all / most website features accessible from mobile -- such as the top-nav,
  site search and in-page table of contents?
* Might a [mobile-first] design make sense for your project?

**Accessibility:**
* Are color contrasts significant enough for color-impaired readers?
* Are most website features usable using a keyboard only?
* Does text-to-speech offer listeners a good experience?

Examples:

* https://helm.sh/

#### Branding and design

* Is there an easily recognizable brand for the project (logo + color scheme) clearly identifiable?
* Is the brand used across the website consistently?
* Is the website’s typography clean and well-suited for reading?

Examples:

* https://helm.sh/


#### Case studies/social proof

* Are there case studies available for the project and are they documented on the website?
* Are there user testimonials available?
* Is there an active project blog?
* Are there community talks for the project and are they present on the website?
* Is there a logo wall of users/participating organizations?

Examples:

* https://www.fluentd.org/testimonials (user testimonials)
* https://goharbor.io/ (logo wall)
* https://blog.rook.io/ (blog)


#### SEO, Analytics and site-local search

**Analytics:**
* Is analytics enabled for the production server?
* Is analytics disabled for all other deploys?
* If your project used Google Analytics, have you migrated to GA4?
* Can Page-not-found (404) reports easily be generated from you site analytics? Provide a sample of the site's current top-10 404s.

**Indexing and Search:**
* Is site indexing supported for the production server, while disabled for website previews and builds for non-default branches?
* Is local intra-site search available from the website?

* Are the current custodian(s) of the following accounts clearly documented: analytics, Google Search Console, site-search (such as Google CSE or Algolia)

#### Maintenance planning

* Is your website tooling well supported by the community (i.e., Hugo with the Docsy theme) or commonly used by CNCF projects (our recommended tech stack?)
* Are you actively cultivating website maintainers from within the community?
* Are site build times reasonable?
* Do site maintainers have adequate permissions?

Examples:

* http://kubernetes.io

#### Other

* Is your website accessible via HTTPS?
* Does HTTP access, if any, redirect to HTTPS?

### Recommendations

TBD

## Recommendations


<!--- References --->

[dwelsch-esi]: https://github.com/dwelsch-esi
[install]: https://etcd.io/docs/v3.5/install/
[0010-etcd]: https://github.com/cncf/techdocs/assessments/0010-etcd.md
[etcd-io]: https://etcd.io
[inclusive-naming]: https://inclusivenaming.org
[install-check]: https://etcd.io/docs/v3.5/install/#installation-check
[website-min-reqs]: https://github.com/cncf/toc/tree/main/process#ii-stages---definitions--expectations
[assess-howto]: https://github.com/cncf/techdocs/blob/main/assessments/howto.md
[website-guidelines]: https://github.com/cncf/techdocs/blob/main/docs/website-guidelines-checklist.md
[cncf-servicedesk]: https://servicedesk.cncf.io
[archiving-repo]: https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/archiving-a-github-repository/archiving-repositories
[mobile-first]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Progressive_web_apps/Responsive/Mobile_first
[accessibility]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility
[etcd-io]: httpd://etcd.io
